# Writing a novel on Github

## The project (in two parts)
1. **An experimental use of tools / conceptual aspect / performative act** ... using Github / version control almost daily to create a literary work-in-progress. This is meant to show the seams of creative work by displaying the process of prose writing and story development in a public way. The idea behind this is to borrow from an "open-source" ideology from the tech community as a means to counter the ideas of privacy and authorship that prevalent in traditional artistic and literary scenes / contexts. The purpose also comes from a personal project of overcoming blocks about perfectionism, objectives, and creating a final work for display before I have even started the embarassing and daily tedium of untangling thoughts and syntax, and not "getting too precious" about the work along the way.

2. **The literary side or the story itself**... broken up into roughly six scenes which may be thought of as filmic and draw their order from a thought of them as screenplays, but most likely I will present in a poetic form or lyric prose, ultimately. The hub of the story are the interconnected affairs or fluid relationships between past and present lovers of a woman called Ana, who has a child and domestic relationship with a close friend and sometime lover Paul. They are both immigrants but from very different backgrounds in a large city that may or may not be named or referenced in the text (but in my mind is based on Berlin). The six scenes tell a cohesive but non-linear story about the nuances in the labels, devices, and practicalities that bind people to each other within non-monogamous relationships, which mean different things to the people involved.

## The story (in six parts)

*Ana and Milo*

The narrative frame begins when Ana starts an affair with Milo, who she meets in the evening at the school where she works while she is waiting for a moving truck. She is a music teacher and he works for piano movers who are well-known for not showing up but somehow have a monopoly on the piano moving business (and no matter who you call you get them). Milo is completely unlike Ana in most respects and the kind of person that she would usually avoid in her home country, but is struck with something like nostalgia in her longing and protectiveness for him. Milo knows that Ana has a partner and chlid, but is disappointed to find out that her partner knows about him too and is (at least in theory) okay with it, as if this is a great lie and deception on Ana's part to let him think it was conventional cheating, like an extra-marital affair.

//

*Paul and Katja*

The narrative time of the second "scene" coincides with the first, where Ana meets Milo. In the second story, Ana's partner/lover/co-parent Paul finds out he needs to move out of an apartment which has never been his but which he has been using for nearly a decade. He finds out about the apartment shortly after Ana's affair with Milo has begun. Paul does not like what he knows of Milo, but has supports having an open relationship with Ana in general and since the beginning, not least of all because he still remains connected to an old lover of his (Katja) by partially living in her studio apartment while she was semi-permanently out of the city. This situation was at first due to Katja's work touring as a dancer, and then as she pulled away from dancing, it was more because she had another lover/partner with whom she is more permanently settled, but allows Paul to stay in the flat anyway in case she wants to come back (she comes from money and the flat belongs to her father, so is really not a concern for her). 

Meanwhile, for Paul, the flat is both a useful space for solitude and making things (like Ana, Paul makes music, but is not formally trained), and also a sort of object of longing and devotion to Katja, who is always permanently elsewhere and barely interested in him any longer, though their relationship spans almost two decades.  The flat where he lives with Ana and their son has also always been Ana's, and Paul feels that he has no real claim of his own to anything and that he is somehow ghostly or shrinking with the loss of Katja's flat (but also Katja herself) and Ana's enthusiasm for someone so different from either of them (Milo) who Paul rightly suspects does not know everything of their situation (but not in the way that Paul thinks).

//

*Ana and Deb*

...met in Ana's home country when Deb was a student; Deb became successful as a journalist through the stories given to her by Ana's group of friends. Deb is both dearly close and emotionally depends on Ana and partly in love with her in a way she is not fully comfortable expressing or admitting; she knows that Ana is queer too but also much stronger and more confident than Deb and in some ways in a much less mobile, more precarious practical position as a young person in a country that has been torn apart from war. Deb overcompensates for her mixed feelings by offering Ana her place in (the city where they all later live/Berlin but not Berlin), giving Ana a much coveted route to emigrate from her home country. Ana and Paul thus both have as a theme needing to establish their own secruity / practical independence in this city where they have immigrated, but from much different circumstances. (Paul and Deb are British/American respectively but still unsure how explicit I will make this). Ana is sure-footed and swift about becoming self-sufficient as quickly as possible, while Paul does not seem as motivated towards it and seems to somehwat masochistically enjoy his dependency on Kajta, but much less so on Ana (despite that their relationship is much stronger and healthier)

*Paul and Deb*

Deb is ultimately the one who introduces Ana to Paul but then has mixed feelings (predictably) about how close they become. Paul and Deb know each other from the queer community and so Deb is also partly disappointed that Paul remains so dependent on his relationships to women rather than being more unconventional. Paul is not succesful like Deb, and neither are out to their family, though for Paul it would not be a problem, it is simply not a concern, and Deb chooses to actively hide this due to her family's religiousness/homophobia. When she was younger she was married to a man who cheated on her, confessed with great fear and distress, and then was surprised to discover she was delighted, as she had at this point in her life realized she had almost no sexual interest in him. He was almost disappointed at her lack of fury, and his relationship with the new person fell apart as a result of the lack of dramatic momentum he had expected. Deb gladly settles with him on the house without a lengthy divorce process and even ends up supporting him for years while he falls listless.
    
 [to be continued from handwritten notes!]   
 
    ----
    
  ### Additional  Notes
    
 *I see this project as putting me at a bit of an impasse with what I thought was some very good advice about making creative work from my photo teacher (Judy Linn at Vassar College). She said first that I should try and establish an "impossible goal" as the foundation for a project, and second "don't tell anybody" -- to keep the specific idea behind it more or less secret from the audience if asked (namely, the other professors or students at the art critique) as a means of propelling creative exploration essentially for its own sake (as I understood it, anyway).* 

*I think that's a great model for making work but I also want to not be overly private about what I am thinking about in creating the notes for this project. I want the work to be able to stand on its own as a literary text without the rest of the conceptual aspect / github as tool / open-source ideology behind it, so in the work itself I will stick to the idea of obscuring what the reference points are to a certain extent. But there are also aspect of the texts related to geography or social history that I may want to obscure, as I don't have authority to write about it (i.e. the experience of Yugoslav immigrants in Berlin in the early 2000s, etc.) and prefer to leave a degree of amibiguity about the source of inspiration and cultural identity of the main characters.*
			
