## The story (in six parts)

*Ana and Milo*

The narrative frame begins when Ana starts an affair with Milo, who she meets in the evening at the school where she works while she is waiting for a moving truck. She is a music teacher and he works for piano movers who are well-known for not showing up but somehow have a monopoly on the piano moving business (and no matter who you call you get them). Milo is completely unlike Ana in most respects and the kind of person that she would usually avoid in her home country, but is struck with something like nostalgia in her longing and protectiveness for him. Milo knows that Ana has a partner and chlid, but is disappointed to find out that her partner knows about him too and is (at least in theory) okay with it, as if this is a great lie and deception on Ana's part to let him think it was conventional cheating, like an extra-marital affair.

//

*Paul and Katja*

The narrative time of the second "scene" coincides with the first, where Ana meets Milo. In the second story, Ana's partner/lover/co-parent Paul finds out he needs to move out of an apartment which has never been his but which he has been using for nearly a decade. He finds out about the apartment shortly after Ana's affair with Milo has begun. Paul does not like what he knows of Milo, but has supports having an open relationship with Ana in general and since the beginning, not least of all because he still remains connected to an old lover of his (Katja) by partially living in her studio apartment while she was semi-permanently out of the city. This situation was at first due to Katja's work touring as a dancer, and then as she pulled away from dancing, it was more because she had another lover/partner with whom she is more permanently settled, but allows Paul to stay in the flat anyway in case she wants to come back (she comes from money and the flat belongs to her father, so is really not a concern for her). 

Meanwhile, for Paul, the flat is both a useful space for solitude and making things (like Ana, Paul makes music, but is not formally trained), and also a sort of object of longing and devotion to Katja, who is always permanently elsewhere and barely interested in him any longer, though their relationship spans almost two decades.  The flat where he lives with Ana and their son has also always been Ana's, and Paul feels that he has no real claim of his own to anything and that he is somehow ghostly or shrinking with the loss of Katja's flat (but also Katja herself) and Ana's enthusiasm for someone so different from either of them (Milo) who Paul rightly suspects does not know everything of their situation (but not in the way that Paul thinks).

//

*Ana and Deb*

...met in Ana's home country when Deb was a student; Deb became successful as a journalist through the stories given to her by Ana's group of friends. Deb is both dearly close and emotionally depends on Ana and partly in love with her in a way she is not fully comfortable expressing or admitting; she knows that Ana is queer too but also much stronger and more confident than Deb and in some ways in a much less mobile, more precarious practical position as a young person in a country that has been torn apart from war. Deb overcompensates for her mixed feelings by offering Ana her place in (the city where they all later live/Berlin but not Berlin), giving Ana a much coveted route to emigrate from her home country. Ana and Paul thus both have as a theme needing to establish their own secruity / practical independence in this city where they have immigrated, but from much different circumstances. (Paul and Deb are British/American respectively but still unsure how explicit I will make this). Ana is sure-footed and swift about becoming self-sufficient as quickly as possible, while Paul does not seem as motivated towards it and seems to somehwat masochistically enjoy his dependency on Kajta, but much less so on Ana (despite that their relationship is much stronger and healthier)

*Paul and Deb*

Deb is ultimately the one who introduces Ana to Paul but then has mixed feelings (predictably) about how close they become. Paul and Deb know each other from the queer community and so Deb is also partly disappointed that Paul remains so dependent on his relationships to women rather than being more unconventional. Paul is not succesful like Deb, and neither are out to their family, though for Paul it would not be a problem, it is simply not a concern, and Deb chooses to actively hide this due to her family's religiousness/homophobia. When she was younger she was married to a man who cheated on her, confessed with great fear and distress, and then was surprised to discover she was delighted, as she had at this point in her life realized she had almost no sexual interest in him. He was almost disappointed at her lack of fury, and his relationship with the new person fell apart as a result of the lack of dramatic momentum he had expected. Deb gladly settles with him on the house without a lengthy divorce process and even ends up supporting him for years while he falls listless.
    
 [to be continued from handwritten notes!]  
